# Transactions exercise

For this exercise, you will interrupt a multi-statement transaction and verify 
that MarkLogic did the right thing. 

## Testing

### Node-inspector

If you have node-inspector installed, launch it with the multi-statement 
transaction file:

    node-debug 02-multistatement-transaction.js

Set a breakpoint on the first line of the deleteBinary() function. 

Tell the debugger to execute the program. When it hits the breakpoint in 
deleteBinary(), go back to the command line and kill the debugging process 
(Ctrl-C).

### Command-line debugger

If you do not have node-inspector installed, add `debugger;` as the first line 
of the deleteBinary() function. Run like this:

    node debug 02-multistatement-transaction.js

At the prompt type `cont` (short for "continue") to have the program run to the
breakpoint. 

    $ node debug 02-multistatement-transaction.js 
    < Debugger listening on port 5858
    debug> . ok
    break in 02-multistatement-transaction.js:8
      6 // disconnected.
      7 
        8 var ml = require('marklogic');
      9 var conn = require('../config.js').admin;
     10 var db = ml.createDatabaseClient(conn);
    debug> cont
    < retrieving /binary/01.JPG
    < changing /binary/01.JPG to /binary/01.jpg
    < inserting image at /binary/01.jpg
    break in 02-multistatement-transaction.js:56
     54   // Remove the original binary image
     55   console.log('removing image from ' + binaryURI);
    >56   debugger;
     57   db.documents.remove({ uris: binaryURI, txid: transactionID}).result();
     58 }
    debug> 
    (To exit, press ^C again or type .exit)
    debug> 

When the breakpoint is reached, type Ctrl-C twice to kill the program. 

## Verification

While running, we saw the messages associated with updating the JSON document 
and with inserting the image at its new location. However, we interrupted the 
program before it could delete the original. 

Because we did this in a multistatement transaction, there was no commit. The 
JSON file stays in its original state and the binary does not get moved to the 
new URI. 

